1. What is NoSQL data base? 
Ans:-
NoSQL describes the wide variety of database technologies created to address the shortcomings of RDBMS and the demands of modern software development.
Features:- 
1.Heterogeneous containers, including sets, maps, and arrays
2.NoSQL analytics systems support runtime type identification and conversion so that custom business logic can be used to dictate analytic treatment of variation.
3.Data is stored in single tables as compared to joining multiple tables.
4.Adding more of the economical servers allows NoSQL databases to scale to handle more data.
5.Distributed databases can store and process a set of information on more than one device.



2. How does data get stored in NoSQl database? 
Ans:-
It stores data in a key-value approach. It has table name, columns family, versions of data.


3. What is a column family in HBase? 
Unlike RDBMS, in HBase columns can be sub-divided into many more columns and can have different types of data supported for a particular column family.


4. How many maximum number of columns can be added to HBase table? 
There are no limits for columns as it supports storing data region wise where single table can be distributed among multiple region servers.


5. Why columns are not defined at the time of table creation in HBase? 
Because of the column family approach, one can devide the colums into various subdivisions for each record insertion.


6. How does data get managed in HBase? 
Unlike RDBMS, data are stored in a columnar approach where each column data are stored in single group and the other columns follow. Hey row key is used to access or store a paticular set of data.


7. What happens internally when new data gets inserted into HBase table? 
Following are the steps when data is inserted:-
1.When the client issues a Put request, the first step is to write the data to the write-ahead log, the WAL.
2.Edits are appended to the end of the WAL file that is stored on disk. 
3.The WAL is used to recover not-yet-persisted data in case a server crashes.
4.Once the data is written to the WAL, it is placed in the MemStore. Then, the put request acknowledgement returns to the client.
